


Network Working Group                                     G. Vaidya, Ed.
Internet-Draft                                                M. Schwern
Intended status: Informational                          October 28, 2009
Expires: May 1, 2010


                    The Test Anything Protocol (TAP)
                 draft-vaidya-test-anything-protocol-00

Status of this Memo

   By submitting this Internet-Draft, each author represents that any
   applicable patent or other IPR claims of which he or she is aware
   have been or will be disclosed, and any of which he or she becomes
   aware will be disclosed, in accordance with Section 6 of BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that
   other groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-
   Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt.

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

   This Internet-Draft will expire on May 1, 2010.


















Vaidya & Schwern           Expires May 1, 2010                  [Page 1]

Internet-Draft      The Test Anything Protocol (TAP)        October 2009


Abstract

   The Test Anything Protocol (TAP) is a protocol to allow communication
   between unit tests and a test harness.  It allows individual tests
   (TAP producers) to communicate test results to the testing harness in
   a language-agnostic way.  Tests can indicate success, failure, as
   well as mark tests as unimplemented or skipped, and to provide
   additional information to aid in debugging of failed tests.  Unlike
   other testing systems, it can indicate missing tests and duplicated
   tests.

   This specification defines TAP version 13.


Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
     1.1.  Requirements notation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
   2.  Definitions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
   3.  Producers and consumers  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
   4.  Security Considerations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
   5.  Normative References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
   Authors' Addresses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
   Intellectual Property and Copyright Statements . . . . . . . . . . 10



























Vaidya & Schwern           Expires May 1, 2010                  [Page 2]

Internet-Draft      The Test Anything Protocol (TAP)        October 2009


1.  Introduction

   The Test Anything Protocol (TAP) describes a standard format for
   testing suites to use.  This format provides both human and machine-
   readable information on which tests were run, whether they were
   successful or failed, as well as other information which might be
   useful in tracing the cause of the failure.  Being machine-readable
   allows this information to be easily parsed by an automated testing
   harness.  Test results may then be summarized and analyzed.  Being
   human-readable allows the results of a testing system to be read
   manually; this is useful for quickly determining whether individual
   tests pass and to aid in debugging the test system itself.

   TAP has been in use since 1987 by Perl.  The format is very stable,
   and capable of providing data on failed tests to help in debugging.

1.1.  Requirements notation

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
   document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC2119].

   The grammatical rules in this document are following ABNF and are to
   be interpreted as described in [RFC5234].



























Vaidya & Schwern           Expires May 1, 2010                  [Page 3]

Internet-Draft      The Test Anything Protocol (TAP)        October 2009


2.  Definitions

   Test:
         A piece of software which determines if a particular facility
         or component is functional.

   Test result:
         The encoding in TAP of the result of a single test.  It may
         have exactly one TAP result directive.

   Test set:
         Zero or more test results with exactly one plan.  A test set
         can be determined to have failed or passed.

   Test suite:
         A collection of test sets.

   TAP document:
         One test set which parses correctly as defined in this
         document.  Future expansion may allow multiple test sets to be
         contained in a single TAP document, allowing an entire test
         suite to be stored as a single TAP document.

   Plan:
         The number of tests which are expected to pass in a single test
         set.

   Directive:
         A directive changes the meaning of a test result; it is
         commonly used to indicate that a failing test should be
         reported as passing (TODO) or that a passing test should be
         tagged as suspicious (SKIP).

   Reason:
         A reason explains why a directive was necessary.

   Description:
         A description says what a test result is testing.

   Producer:
         A producer is a thing which can generate a valid TAP document.

   Consumer:
         A consumer is a thing which can parse and interpret a TAP
         document.






Vaidya & Schwern           Expires May 1, 2010                  [Page 4]

Internet-Draft      The Test Anything Protocol (TAP)        October 2009


   Filter:
         A filter a piece of software which consumes a TAP document, and
         produces a new TAP document based in some way on the TAP input.
         For example, it can reproduce the TAP document exactly,
         normalize the formatting, combine multiple documents, or
         summarize the result of tests as a new TAP document.













































Vaidya & Schwern           Expires May 1, 2010                  [Page 5]

Internet-Draft      The Test Anything Protocol (TAP)        October 2009


3.  Producers and consumers

   TBD
















































Vaidya & Schwern           Expires May 1, 2010                  [Page 6]

Internet-Draft      The Test Anything Protocol (TAP)        October 2009


4.  Security Considerations

   None.
















































Vaidya & Schwern           Expires May 1, 2010                  [Page 7]

Internet-Draft      The Test Anything Protocol (TAP)        October 2009


5.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

   [RFC5234]  Crocker, D. and P. Overell, "Augmented BNF for Syntax
              Specifications: ABNF", STD 68, RFC 5234, January 2008.












































Vaidya & Schwern           Expires May 1, 2010                  [Page 8]

Internet-Draft      The Test Anything Protocol (TAP)        October 2009


Authors' Addresses

   Gaurav Vaidya (editor)


   Michael G Schwern













































Vaidya & Schwern           Expires May 1, 2010                  [Page 9]

Internet-Draft      The Test Anything Protocol (TAP)        October 2009


Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The IETF Trust (2009).

   This document is subject to the rights, licenses and restrictions
   contained in BCP 78, and except as set forth therein, the authors
   retain all their rights.

   This document and the information contained herein are provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE CONTRIBUTOR, THE ORGANIZATION HE/SHE REPRESENTS
   OR IS SPONSORED BY (IF ANY), THE INTERNET SOCIETY, THE IETF TRUST AND
   THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS
   OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF
   THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.


Intellectual Property

   The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
   Intellectual Property Rights or other rights that might be claimed to
   pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described in
   this document or the extent to which any license under such rights
   might or might not be available; nor does it represent that it has
   made any independent effort to identify any such rights.  Information
   on the procedures with respect to rights in RFC documents can be
   found in BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Copies of IPR disclosures made to the IETF Secretariat and any
   assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an
   attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for the use of
   such proprietary rights by implementers or users of this
   specification can be obtained from the IETF on-line IPR repository at
   http://www.ietf.org/ipr.

   The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
   copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary
   rights that may cover technology that may be required to implement
   this standard.  Please address the information to the IETF at
   ietf-ipr@ietf.org.











Vaidya & Schwern           Expires May 1, 2010                 [Page 10]

